# Gluster Community Meeting -  10/11/2020


### Previous Meeting minutes:

- [Meeting Minutes](http://github.com/gluster/community/meetings)

### Date/Time: Check the [community calendar](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MDQ0YmRydTllMXYzdWFoMmpsbjdqNXJlYmNfMjAyMDEwMjdUMDkwMDAwWiBzYWptb2hhbUByZWRoYXQuY29t&tmsrc=sajmoham%40redhat.com&scp=ALL)

### Bridge
  - 2nd / 4th Tuesday's, 02:30PM IST
  - Bridge: https://meet.google.com/cpu-eiue-hvk


-------

### Attendance
Name (#gluster-dev alias) - company
* Nikhil Ladha - Red Hat
* Amar Tumballi - kadalu.io
* Saju Mohammed - Red Hat
* Srijan Sivakumar - Red Hat
* Vinayakswami Hariharmath - RedHat
* Sunil Kumar - Red Hat
* Rinku Kothiya - Red Hat
* Barak Sason Rofman - Red Hat
* Sheetal Pamecha - Red Hat
* Pranith Kumar Karampuri - phonepe.com
* Karthik Subrahmanya - Red Hat
* Aravinda Vishwanathapura (aravindavk) - Kadalu.io
* Shwetha Acharya (sacharya) - Red Hat

### User stories
* https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues/1770
* https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues/1764
* https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues/1729

### Community

* Project metrics:

|    Metrics                |   Value  |
| ------------------------- | -------- |
|[Coverity](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/gluster-glusterfs)  | 63 |
|[Clang Scan](https://build.gluster.org/job/clang-scan/lastBuild/) |  87  |
|[Test coverage](https://build.gluster.org/job/line-coverage/lastCompletedBuild/Line_20Coverage_20Report/)|  70.9   |
|[Gluster User Queries in last 14 days](https://lists.gluster.org/pipermail/gluster-users/2020-November/thread.html)        |     11     |
|[Total Github issues](https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues)       |    392   |


* Any release updates?
  [Rinku] Need patches to be tagged for Release-8 and Release-7

* Blocker issues across the project?
    * None


* Notable thread from mailing list
    * https://lists.gluster.org/pipermail/gluster-users/2020-November/038915.html
    * https://lists.gluster.org/pipermail/gluster-users/2020-November/038930.html

### Conferences / Meetups

* None



### GlusterFS - v9 and beyond
* Gluster 9 roadmap [tracker](https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues/1465)

### Developer focus

* Any design specs to discuss?
  - Namespace: https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues/1757
  - Simple-Quota: https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues/1774


### Component status
* Arbiter - Stable
* AFR - Stable
* DHT - Stable
* EC - Stable
* DOC - Stable
* Geo Replication - Stable
* Glusterd - Stable



### Recent Blog posts / Document updates
* GlusterFS dashboard https://kadalu.io/blog/gdash-v1.0


### Host

* Who will host next meeting? [Sheetal]
  - Host will need to send out the agenda 24hr - 12hrs in advance to mailing list, and also make sure to send the meeting minutes.
  - Host will need to reach out to one user at least who can talk about their usecase, their experience, and their needs.
  - Host needs to send meeting minutes as PR to http://github.com/gluster/community
  - Host has to send the meeting minutes as a mail to the gluster-devel and gluster-users list.


### Notetaker

* Who will take notes from the next meeting? [Sheetal]


### RoundTable
* [Amar] Technical doc through which one can get an overview of the technologies or the tools to leanr about before start contributing to the project.
*  [Nikhil] Flow chart for the glusterd control flow 


### Action Items on host
* Check-in Minutes of meeting for this meeting


