# Gluster Community Meeting -  24/08/2021


### Previous Meeting minutes:

- [Meeting Minutes](https://github.com/gluster/community/tree/master/meetings)

### Date/Time: Check the [community calendar](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MDQ0YmRydTllMXYzdWFoMmpsbjdqNXJlYmNfMjAyMDEwMjdUMDkwMDAwWiBzYWptb2hhbUByZWRoYXQuY29t&tmsrc=sajmoham%40redhat.com&scp=ALL)

### Bridge
  - 2nd / 4th Tuesday's, 02:30PM IST
  - Bridge: https://meet.google.com/cpu-eiue-hvk


-------

### Attendance
Name (#gluster-dev alias) - company
* Pranith Kumar K - PhonePe
* Shriram V - PhonePe
* Nikhil Ladha - Red Hat
* Shwetha Acharya - Red Hat
* Aravinda Vishwanathapura - Kadalu.io
* Mayank Gautham - PhonePe
* Chetan More - Red Hat
* Sunil Kumar Acharya - Red Hat
* Amar Tumballi - Kadalu.io
* Vinayak Hariharmath - Red Hat
* Shreevatsa N - Kadalu.io
* Sheetal Pamecha - Red Hat
* Rafi KC- iTernity
    

### User stories
* None

### Community

* Project metrics:

|    Metrics                |   Value  |
| ------------------------- | -------- |
|[Coverity](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/gluster-glusterfs)  | 21  |
|[Clang Scan](https://build.gluster.org/job/clang-scan/lastBuild/) |   87  |
|[Line coverage](https://build.gluster.org/job/line-coverage/lastCompletedBuild/Line_20Coverage_20Report/)|     70.8 |
|[Function coverage](https://build.gluster.org/job/line-coverage/lastCompletedBuild/Line_20Coverage_20Report/)|     85.0 |
|[Gluster User Queries in last 14 days](https://lists.gluster.org/pipermail/gluster-users/2021-August/thread.html)        |     9     |
|[Total Github issues](https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues)       |  283     |


* Any release updates?
    * Gluster-X
        * Expected release date: 
            * 11th October

* Blocker issues across the project?
    * None

* Notable thread from the mailing list
    * None

### Conferences / Meetups
* None


### GlusterFS - v10 and beyond
* Expected release date: 
    * 11th October

### Developer focus

* Any design specs to discuss?
    * Replace-brick using alternate methods: [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues/2705)
    * Tiering Feature update: [PR Link](https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/pull/2681)
        * What is [Tiering](https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/blob/d5d72ff76e43e5376e821d026340da12464e5f6b/xlators/features/tier/README.md)?



### Component status
* Arbiter - stable/maintained
* AFR - stable/maintained
* DHT - stable/maintained
* EC - stable/maintained
* DOC - stable/maintained
* Geo Replication - stable/maintained
* Glusterd - stable/maintained
* thin-arbiter - stable/maintained


### Talk about Tiering

- [README Doc]( https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/blob/d5d72ff76e43e5376e821d026340da12464e5f6b/xlators/features/tier/README.md)

### Recent Blog posts / Document updates
* [Kadalu's use of GlusterFS](https://thoughtexpo.com/exploring-kadalu-storage-in-k3d-cluster-glusterfs/) - Credits to @leela_vg


### Host

* Who will host the next meeting? [Nikhil]
  - Host will need to send out the agenda 24hr - 12hrs in advance to mailing list, and also make sure to send the meeting minutes.
  - Host will need to reach out to one user at least who can talk about their usecase, their experience, and their needs.
  - Host needs to send meeting minutes as PR to http://github.com/gluster/community
  - Host has to send the meeting minutes as a mail to the gluster-devel and gluster-users list.


### Notetaker

* Who will take notes from the next meeting? [Nikhil]


### RoundTable
* Updates on CentOS-8 Regression run
* Parallel run of .t tests

### Action Items on host
* Check-in Minutes of meeting for this meeting


