# Gluster Community Meeting -  23/02/2021


### Previous Meeting details:

- [Meeting Minutes](https://github.com/gluster/community/blob/master/meetings/2021-02-09-Community-Meeting.md)

### Date/Time: Check the [community calendar](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MDQ0YmRydTllMXYzdWFoMmpsbjdqNXJlYmNfMjAyMDEwMjdUMDkwMDAwWiBzYWptb2hhbUByZWRoYXQuY29t&tmsrc=sajmoham%40redhat.com&scp=ALL)

### Bridge
  - 2nd / 4th Tuesday's, 02:30PM IST
  - Bridge: https://meet.google.com/cpu-eiue-hvk


-------

### Attendance
Name (#gluster-dev alias) - company
*   Saju Mohammed
*   Csaba Henk, Red Hat
*   Shwetha Acharya, Red Hat
*   Ayush Ujjwal, Red Hat
*   Srijan Sivakumar, Red Hat


### User stories
*    None

### Community

* Project metrics:

|    Metrics                |   Value  |
| ------------------------- | -------- |
|[Coverity](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/gluster-glusterfs)  | 63  |
|[Clang Scan](https://build.gluster.org/job/clang-scan/lastBuild/) |   89  |
|[Test coverage](https://build.gluster.org/job/line-coverage/lastCompletedBuild/Line_20Coverage_20Report/)|    70.5 % |
|[Gluster User Queries in last 14 days](https://lists.gluster.org/pipermail/gluster-users/2021-January/thread.html)        |    20      |
|[Total Github issues](https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues)       |    358   |


* Any release updates?
    * Release 8.4 : Release doc opened. Update will be sent out soon.

* Blocker issues across the project?
* Notable thread from mailing list

### Conferences / Meetups

* [FAST 21](https://www.usenix.org/conference/fast21/technical-sessions)
    * Taking place today.

* [SYSTOR 21](https://www.systor.org/2021/cfp.html)
    * June 14th - June 16th

* Talks related to gluster:
    - None.


### GlusterFS - v10 and beyond

* [Gluster X Backlog](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bMZdya4nDlqEo11IfCNrw4GcXUhof-Sw-YbbuzkjCmo/edit?usp=sharing) - Request to add any new features/big fix you are working on.
    * Backlog to be published on 1st week of March.

### Developer focus

* Any design specs to discuss?


### Component status
* Arbiter - Stable
* AFR - Stable
* DHT - Stable
* EC - Stable
* DOC - Updates in progress
* Geo Replication - Stable
* Glusterd - Stable
* thin-arbiter - Stable



### Recent Blog posts / Document updates

* No new blog posts in the recent times.


### Host

* Who will host next meeting? [ Shwetha ]
  - Host will need to send out the agenda 24hr - 12hrs in advance to mailing list, and also make sure to send the meeting minutes.
  - Host will need to reach out to one user at least who can talk about their usecase, their experience, and their needs.
  - Host needs to send meeting minutes as PR to http://github.com/gluster/community
  - Host has to send the meeting minutes as a mail to the gluster-devel and gluster-users list.


### Notetaker

* Who will take notes from the next meeting? [ Swetha ]


### RoundTable

* Blog posts which have been written post Dec 2020 not reflecting in planet.gluster.org.


### Action Items on host
* Check-in Minutes of the previous meeting

