# Gluster Community Meeting -  09/02/2021


### Previous Meeting details:

- [Meeting Minutes](https://github.com/gluster/community/blob/master/meetings/2021-01-12-Community-Meeting.md)

### Date/Time: Check the [community calendar](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MDQ0YmRydTllMXYzdWFoMmpsbjdqNXJlYmNfMjAyMDEwMjdUMDkwMDAwWiBzYWptb2hhbUByZWRoYXQuY29t&tmsrc=sajmoham%40redhat.com&scp=ALL)

### Bridge
  - 2nd / 4th Tuesday's, 02:30PM IST
  - Bridge: https://meet.google.com/cpu-eiue-hvk


-------

### Attendance
Name (#gluster-dev alias) - company
* Nikhil Ladha - Red Hat
* Saju Mohammed - Red Hat
* Srijan Sivakumar - Red Hat
* Sunil Kumar - Red Hat
* Rinku Kothiya - Red Hat
* Amar Tumballi - Kadalu.IO
* Pranith Kumar K - PhonePe
* Vinayak Hariharmath - RedHat
* Patric Uebele - Red Hat
* Nishith Vihar - Red Hat
* Shwetha Acharya - Red Hat

### User stories
*    None

### Community

* Project metrics:

|    Metrics                |   Value  |
| ------------------------- | -------- |
|[Coverity](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/gluster-glusterfs)  | 64  |
|[Clang Scan](https://build.gluster.org/job/clang-scan/lastBuild/) |   88  |
|[Test coverage](https://build.gluster.org/job/line-coverage/lastCompletedBuild/Line_20Coverage_20Report/)|    70.8 % |
|[Gluster User Queries in last 14 days](https://lists.gluster.org/pipermail/gluster-users/2021-January/thread.html)        |    12      |
|[Total Github issues](https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues)       |    366   |


* Any release updates?
    * Request team to label pull request with release-8.4 label.

* Blocker issues across the project?
    * Regression tests were failing for a week, but it's fine now.
* Notable thread from mailing list
    - [Archiving of old projects](https://lists.gluster.org/pipermail/gluster-devel/2021-February/057134.html)

### Conferences / Meetups

* [Devconf.cz 2021](https://hopin.com/events/devconf-cz-2021)
    * Registration is open and [schedule](https://devconfcz2021.sched.com/) is live
* [FAST 21](https://www.usenix.org/conference/fast21/technical-sessions)
    * Registration is open

* Talks related to gluster:
    - None.


### GlusterFS - v10 and beyond

* Under planning

### Developer focus

* Any design specs to discuss?
    * Updates on the DHT-Global layout PR [#1687](https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/pull/1687)
    * Update on the working of fstat.gluster.org for regression failures



### Component status
* Arbiter - Stable
* AFR - Stable
* DHT - Stable
* EC - Stable
* DOC - Updates in progress
* Geo Replication - Stable
* Glusterd - Stable
* thin-arbiter - Stable



### Recent Blog posts / Document updates

* No new blog posts in the recent times.


### Host

* Who will host next meeting? [Srijan]
  - Host will need to send out the agenda 24hr - 12hrs in advance to mailing list, and also make sure to send the meeting minutes.
  - Host will need to reach out to one user at least who can talk about their usecase, their experience, and their needs.
  - Host needs to send meeting minutes as PR to http://github.com/gluster/community
  - Host has to send the meeting minutes as a mail to the gluster-devel and gluster-users list.


### Notetaker

* Who will take notes from the next meeting? [Srijan]


### RoundTable

*    [Nikhil] Branch name changes on executing the rfc.sh script in glusterfs repo.
*    [Pranith] Performance testing for a new release
*    [Rinku] We have published the perf tests scripts :https://github.com/gluster/gluster-performance-test-suite


### Action Items on host
* Check-in Minutes of the previous meeting
